431 Homework F
================
Due **2019-10-04** at 2 PM. Last Edited 2019-10-03 12:02:03

# General Instructions

Find a headline from the internet related to health or medicine that
describes the findings of a study published on January 1, 2016 or later.
Then find the study being referred to in PUBMED. Use the [formula for
updating your opinions about health news developed by Jeff
Leek](http://fivethirtyeight.com/features/a-formula-for-decoding-health-news/),
along with the abstract and full contents of the published study to
complete Questions 1-6.

## Note

Homework F (and only Homework F) doesn’t actually require that you use R
Markdown to write your responses. If you prefer, you can write a simple
Word or PDF document and submit that, with or without R Markdown. Your
choice.

# Question 1 (10 points)

Specify the URL where we can see the headline and news story describing
the findings of the study. Feel free to use `bit.ly` or a related tool
online to produce a shortened URL for this purpose. Specify the
reference completely, including the names of the author(s) of the news
story, and its full title, and source.

# Question 2 (10 points)

Specify a URL where we can see at least the abstract of the complete
study. Again, shortened URLs are fine. Give the complete reference to
the study, as well, including the authors, full title, journal name and
so forth.

# Question 3 (20 points)

Describe, in a few sentences, your original opinion (gut feeling)
related to the conclusions of the study as summarized in the headline
and news article, first in terms of a probability statement, and then
calculate the appropriate odds, remembering to convert statements about
probabilities to statements about odds. Provide some motivation for your
internal prior probability, describing your relevant personal
experiences or other factors that drove your gut feeling.

Remember, if X is an event, and Pr(X) is the probability that X occurs,
and odds(X) are the odds that X occurs, then

Pr(X) = odds(X) / \[1 + odds(X)\]

and

odds(X) = Pr(X) / (1 - Pr(X)).

# Question 4 (30 points)

Evaluate the study in terms of the six specifications [proposed by
Leek](http://fivethirtyeight.com/features/a-formula-for-decoding-health-news/)
when evaluating study support. Be sure to specify your conclusion about
**each** of the six specifications, and provide direct quotes and
summarize the evidence from the abstract or paper to address the issues
raised and justify your conclusions.

# Question 5 (10 points)

Incorporate the study support assessment into a Bayes’ Rule calculation
to obtain the final odds you should now be willing to give to the
headline, and specify this value in terms of a probability statement, as
well.

# Question 6 (20 points)

React to the final conclusion specified by this approach in a few
sentences. How does your subjective posterior probability that the
headline is true match up with the formula’s conclusions? Do you feel
that the formulaic approach has yielded an appropriate conclusion for
you in this case? Why or why not?
